Hello and welcome to this tutorial.
So, we are almost done with part one, data pre-processing.
We just need three more tutorials
to make our dataset perfectly prepared
before starting the models
and then we'll be good to go.
So, today we're going to talk
about the fact that we need to split the dataset
into a training set and a test set
and I'll explain why we need to do that right now.
So, we have our 10 observations
and this is the dataset, this is the whole dataset
and what we should do in any machine learning models
is that we're gonna split this dataset
into two separate sets
which are gonna be the training set and the test set.
Now, why do we need to do this?
Well, when you take a step back
and focus on the name machine learning itself,
you understand that this is about a machine
that is going to learn something.
Here it's your algorithm, it's your model
that is going to learn from your data
to make predictions or other machine learning goals.
And so, your machine learning model
is going to learn to do something on your dataset
by understanding some correlations
that there is in your dataset
and imagine your machine learning model
is learning too much on the dataset,
like it's learning too much to correlations,
then I'm not sure its performance would be great
on the new set with slightly different correlations.
It's like a student who's learning by heart his lesson
and then when we takes the exam, he might be in trouble
because he learned too much his lesson by heart
and he does not manage to make the connection
between what he learned and the exam
and it's the same for machine learning.
We're going to build our machine learning models
on a dataset but then we have to test it on a new set
which is gonna be slightly different from the dataset
on which we build the machine learning model.
So, we have to make two different sets,
a training set on which we build the machine learning model
and a test set on which we test the performance
of this machine learning model
and the performance on the test set
shouldn't be that different
from the performance on the training set
because this would mean
that the machine learning models understood well
the correlations and didn't learn them by heart
so that he can adapt to new sets and new situations.
So, that's the idea about splitting the dataset
into a training set and a test set,
so I'm gonna jump straight to Python, here we are.
And I have my section ready, splitting the dataset
into the Training set and the Test set.
So, you're gonna see that it's very simple,
it's gonna take us two lines
and as usual, let's start by importing the library
that is going to do the job for us
because we want to be efficient,
the world is going so fast,
so we wanna solve our business problems
in the most efficient way.
So, the library we're going to import
is a new library we haven't met yet.
It's the cross_validation library,
still from scikit-learn.
So, let's import the library.
So, we type from sklearn.cross_validation,
so here it is, I just have to press Enter, Validation.
Import and now we're going to import the train_test_split,
remember when I told you that the libraries' name
are quite intuitive?
Well, that's the case, train_test_split,
it couldn't be more clear.
So, we imported the library, we're fine with that
and now let's build our training and test sets.
So, what we're going to do is we're going create X_train,
then X_test comma
and then y_train and then y_test.
So, X_train is the training part of the matrix of features,
X_test is the test part of the matrix of features,
y_train is the training part of the dependent variable
that is associated to X_train here,
that means that we have the same indexes for both
with the same observations
and y_test is the test part of the dependent variable vector
associated to X_test.
And then we're gonna add an equal
because we're going to define these four variables
at the same time.
So, train_test_split
and then we're gonna put an argument,
so let's inspect it, let's press Command + I
to see what we have to input.
So, train_test_split.
The first parameter is arrays and what is arrays?
That's simply the matrix X,
that is the matrix X of features
of independent variables of our dataset
and then y which is the dependent variable.
So, you know my putting X and y,
it's like we're putting the whole dataset
and that's what they mean by arrays here.
Then the next parameter is test_size.
So, we're gonna add here test_size
equals, so very simply that's the size
of the test set you wanna choose,
so for example, if I put test_size equals 0.5,
that is 50%, that means
that there is gonna be half of your data going
to the test set and half of your data
going to the training set.
But usually we never choose 50% for the test size,
we choose a smaller percentage.
A good choice of the test_size is generally 0.2, like 20%,
that's a good choice or 0.25, 25%
or even sometimes 0.3
and in some rare cases, you will find 0.4
but really I've never seen 0.5.
So, here we're gonna choose 0.2, 20%.
So, that means that since we have 10 observations,
let's go back to Variable Explorer
and find our dataset, we have 10 observations,
so that means that once we do the train_test_split,
we're gonna have two observations in a test set
and eight observations in the training set.
So, let's click OK
and is that all that we have to input?
Well, let's go back to Object Inspector
to see the next parameter.
So, then we have train_size
but since test_size plus train_size equals one,
we don't need to input train_size,
that would be redundant.
But then we're gonna use this parameter
and that's just for the purpose of this course
because I don't want you to worry
about having different results than mine.
You're gonna have the same logical results
but you might have different results
if we don't put a random_state parameter,
so we're gonna use this random_state
and set it to the same number
so that we have all the same results.
So, let's add here random_state
equals then we can choose whatever we want.
A good choice number is 42
and the regular number I choose is zero.
Random_state equals zero.
You can put random_state equals zero in your code
if you want to have exactly the same results as mine.
It's really as you want.
Okay, so we're done actually.
That's the two lines that we have to write
to split correctly the dataset into the training set
and the test set.
So let's see what happens.
Let's select these lines.
Command or Control + Enter to execute.
Here we are, it executed properly.
Now of course let's look at what happened.
Let's go to Variable Explorer.
Here we have some new variables.
Remember before we had the dataset,
the X matrix of features
and the y dependent variable vector
and now we also have X_train, X_test,
y_train and y_test.
So, let's look at them one by one.
X_train.
Since we chose a test size of 20% or .2,
we would normally have eight observations
in a training set and two observation in a test set.
So, let's make sure that's the case.
So, we have our eight observations in the training set
and now let's look at the test set.
Two observations in the test set, perfect
and now let's check that it's the same for y_train,
eight observations, fine
and y_test, two observations.
And now let's open the four, X_train, X_test,
y_train and y_test.
To summarize what the train_test_split is about,
here above we have the training set
with the X_test matrix of independent variables
and the y_train dependent variable vector
and below we have the test set
with the matrix of independent variables, X_test
and the dependent variable vector y_test
and so, what happens is that we are building
our machine learning model on this training set
by establishing some correlations
between the independent variables here
and the dependent variable here
and then once the machine learning model understands
the correlations between the independent variables
and the dependent variable,
we will test if the the machine learning model
can apply the correlations here understood based
on the training set on the test set.
That means that we will see if you can predict
that this customer number zero here
is not going to buy the product
and if this customer number one here
and he's going to be able to predict that based
on what he learned on the training set.
So, the better he learns the correlations
in a training set,
the better he will be predicting the results
in the test set.
But if you learn too much by heart the correlations
of the training set,
you know by learning them by heart
and not understanding them,
then he will have trouble predicting
what's happening on the test set
because since he learned by heart the correlations,
he didn't understand quite well the logic
and he won't be able to make good predictions.
That's called over-fitting.
We will be talking about that in further details
in the regression section
and we will learn how to use regularization techniques
to prevent this but for now,
it's really important that you understand
that we need to make two different datasets,
the training sets on which the machine learning model learns
and the test set on which we test
if the machine learning model
learned correctly the correlations.
So, let's click OK and close that.
So, that's it for this tutorial.
You now know how to split your dataset
into a training set and a test set.
This is a must-do in any machine learning models.
You have to test the performance
of your machine learning model
into a separate test set,
so congratulations, now you are almost ready
to begin the journey
of making exciting machine learning models.
We just have one thing to do left, feature scaling.
You'll understand in the next tutorial
why it's so important to do this,
so I look forward to see you there
and until then, enjoy machine learning.